# KNN Gene Localization Classifier

## Requirements

Task: Perform exploratory data analysis to get a good feel for the data and
prepare the data for data mining. The task in this dataset is to make
predictions on the attribute "**Localization**". Detailed knowledge of the biology
should not be necessary for this assignment. One word of caution: your
classifier for localization should not use “function”, since both fields will
be withheld from the test genes when they are provided.

## Specifications

### Dataset

Data Set Description: This dataset was used in the 2001 kdd cup data mining competition.
(http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~dpage/kddcup2001/). There were in fact two tasks in the competition
with this dataset, the prediction of the "Function" attribute, and prediction of the "Localization"
attribute. Here we focus on the prediction of “Localization” (this is somewhat easier as
genes can have many functions, but only one localization, at least in this dataset). The dataset
provides a variety of details about the several genes of one particular type of organism. The
main dataset (Genes_relation.data and Genes_related.test) contains row data of the following
form:

### Deliverables

- All workable program files: in this assignment, you are required to design and
  implement a classification algorithm to predict gene localization. You may choose any
  classification algorithm we covered in class and implement it in Java. You must
  implement the underlying classifying algorithm from scratch.
- A result file in the format of `<gene ID>, <localization>` in each row.
- A report that includes
  - how to run your program;
  - the methods you used to handle missing data and/or interaction data;
  - the method you used to build the classifier;
  - the accuracy of your solution. The overall accuracy generated by your solution is expected to be higher than 40%.

## Installation

### Using Conda

To create the virtual environment and install required Python packages, run the following commands in the terminal:

```
$conda env create -f environment.yml
$conda activate knn-gene-localization
$python src/main.py
```

### Without Conda

If you do not have Conda installed, the packages may still be installed using the following command:

```
$pip install -r requirements.txt
$python src/main.py
```

## Author

Blake Chalpin ([b-chalpin](https://github.com/b-chalpin))

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
